Let's talk about some best practices and
anti-patterns, mostly for the express
purpose of seeing a little bit more of
what a Tailwind class system looks like.
And then what we're gonna spend the most
of our time doing today is just building
lots of little things over and
over and over again until we get
the muscle memory in place to feel like we
know tailwind like the back of our hand.
So there are just some kind of basic
concepts that we will then refer to.
So I'm gonna just put a few little
place markers in your brain so
I can reference them later effectively.
So when you import Tailwind css,
it uses CSS layers,
which are a modern CSS feature.
They are not tailwind specific.
They are ways to kind of have different
layers of the cascade that you put in
a given order so that anything happens
over one layer, so on and so forth.
We have one for the theme.
This one is special.
All of the CSS variables that we define
on the theme layer then become utility
classes that we can use.
So let's say you do not like the colors
that Tailwind comes with out of the box.
You can go ahead and
redefine those CSS variables and
now they'll mean different things.
Let's say you have a color that is brand.
You can make a new color that is brand
instead of blue and use that everywhere.
Success, error warning,
stuff along those lines.
You can add colors, you can move colors,
you can change what the default font size
is or the default font just by
defining new CSS variables.
The only thing that you have to keep
in mind is that if you would like them
to then turn into tailwind classes,
they need to be on that theme layer.
Again, we will see all these things.
We're just doing the high
level at this point first.
Then you have a base layer, which is all
the times when you would style stuff.
Like if you need to style what body is or
the kind of base HTML elements,
okay, lists, input fields,
so on and so forth.
Now if I was to channel like the official
stance of the Tailwind team,
they'd be like,
you probably don't even need to do that.
You should probably just have components
that you put those classes on and use.
And they're not wrong, right?
Cause like, if you decide like we'll
actually see this at one point.
But if you decide like all
inputs should look like this.
Well, if you want to do something clever
where you have like an input that looks
like it has a button inside,
then you need to take all those
styles off that input, right?
And so a lot of times just keeping
your base elements, base elements and
putting the utility classes in your markup
is usually gonna work out better for you.
But if there are reasons or
all sorts of things,
especially if you're migrating
in a brand new code base, sure,
then we all know that sometimes we don't
get to work in green fields all the time.
Base layers, where you style all of
those raw base elements in HTML,
then you've got your components,
which is more like if you had
a particular button, so on and so forth.
Then this utility property,
which we'll see later as well,
we can make one off little
helpers as we go along.
I need to add an additional class to
everything Tailwind gives me, but
I need to add this one
special class that we use.
You just do utility,
the name of that class.
And now it is in there as well.
The nice thing when we get to the tooling
in a second is like I said before,
there is a learning curve.
That said, if you use Visual Studio code
at least, which is the only editor I use,
other than ones that are just
VS code in Wolf's clothing,
you can get this Tailwind IntelliSense
plugin which gives
you autocomplete because
who doesn't love that?
So anything you use with @utility or
on the theme layer, your CSS will
just work if you ignore all this,
right, but it won't get stripped out.
If you don't use these layers and
you don't use these tools,
everything will work just fine.
Tailwind won't know to go looking for
them to strip them out.
You won't get them in IntelliSense,
so on and so forth.
Everything will be okay.
But like you will just
not be totally optimized.
>> Speaker 2: Do the order
of the CSS layers matter?
For example,
does components override base?
>> Steve Kinney: Yes, so the order
matters, but Tailwind did the order.
The order you write it in doesn't matter,
right?
When the library or the person writing or
you, whoever sets up the layers,
can basically say,
here are the orders of the layers.
Tailwind has done that already, right?
And so your theme happens and then base
happens and then the components happen.
So you can write them in any order, right?
There is a line and this is just again,
you can look at the MDN docs for layers.
I looked at them, I was like,
I will use this one day.
I never did because I just used Tailwind.
But you can define
the order of the layers.
But that's done on the Tailwind level in
the way that you define them in your css,
it doesn't matter.
That's kind of one of the perks of
layers is that it sets that order.
Because otherwise in css,
which one came first?
Which is easy if you have one CSS file,
hard if you have a bunch.
So layers let you kinda
define which one comes first.